Lionel Messi produced another masterful Champions League performance to knock out Manchester United and fire Barcelona into the semifinals for the first time in four years, scoring twice in a 3-0 home win on Tuesday.

Barca, who toyed with United for the majority of the encounter, sealed a 4-0 aggregate victory.

Messi had failed to score in his last 12 quarterfinal appearances, but he settled his side's nerves after a bright start from United, collecting a misplaced pass from Ashley Young and curling into the bottom corner in the 16th minute.

The Argentine then pounced on another lapse from United's defense four minutes later to win back possession high up the pitch and fire a shot from outside the box, which squirmed under visiting keeper David de Gea.

Philippe Coutinho finished off a therapeutic win for the Catalans, after three quarterfinal failures in a row, by curling into the top corner in the second half.

"This was a spectacular performance, this is what we are all about," Messi told reporters.

"The first five minutes we were a little shy and nervous, perhaps the scoreline gave us a strange feeling, but then we took control of the game."

United coach Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's greatest night as a player came at the Nou Camp, but after losing the first leg at Old Trafford 1-0, his team needed to become the first side to win a European game there in 31 matches in order to progress.

They clung to the hope of another famous European escape act after last month's miraculous 3-1 win at Paris St Germain and made a strong start as Marcus Rashford hit the crossbar in the opening stages.

They also survived a scare when a penalty awarded to Barca for an apparent foul by Fred on Ivan Rakitic was overturned after a VAR review.

Yet their hopes were soon extinguished when Young was caught in possession on the left wing and Messi seized the ball, scurrying across the pitch and holding off more United defenders before bending a superb shot past the outstretched De Gea.

The Spanish goalkeeper was left embarrassed for Messi's second goal as the Argentine's tame shot crept under his body.

United looked down and out and Messi nearly dealt them further pain before halftime by sparking another quick break, but this time De Gea thwarted the Catalans, pushing away Sergi Roberto's shot on the goalline.

De Gea was taunted by Barca fans in the second half, which turned into a ­procession for the home side and the out-of-form Coutinho turned up the party atmosphere with his sensational strike.

The nearest United came to finding the target after the break was when ­Barca keeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen turned an Alexis Sanchez header around the post late on.
The 90th Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City kicked off on Thursday among unprecedented law enforcement presence as millions of spectators gathered along the route to marvel at the annual spectacle. 

Approximately three thousand law enforcement officers, many of them carrying assault rifles and walking bomb-sniffing dogs, were deployed within and around the parade route. More than 80 sand-filled sanitation trucks could be seen at key points including street intersections, serving as barriers against potential attacks. 

The heightened security force came as a recent arrest of a Brooklyn resident who allegedly attempted to join ISIS and expressed support of a terrorist attack in New York City. However, city officials said there was no specific or credible threat. 

The parade stated around 9 a.m. from Upper West Side of Manhattan and proceeded to Macy's flagship store at Herald Square on 34th Street. 

Famous for the huge balloons and floats, this year' s parade featured 16 giant character balloons, 27 smaller novelty balloons, 26 floats, more than one thousand cheerleaders and clowns, 16 marching bands and performance groups. 

The floats included one from Chengdu, China. Featuring pandas, the Dujiangyan dam and Qingcheng mountain, the float attracted lasting applauses and cheers. 

"It was so exciting to see the parade in person," said Maxine Thomas from the state of Texas. 

3.5 million people were expected to come and see the nationally televised parade that kicks off the holiday shopping season. Another 50 million will be watching the celebration from home.

