Chen Zeyong, CEO of online visa service tigerwing.cn, said the Japanese government issued 7 million visa stickers for Chinese nationals last year.

"If visas become a bar code or QR code emailed to applicants, their workload will be greatly lessened," he said during the Shanghai World Travel Fair on Thursday.

Japan Tourism Agency data showed that 8.38 million tourists from the Chinese mainland traveled to Japan in 2018, representing year-on-year growth of 13.9 percent and contributing nearly 27 percent of international tourists.

China has been the world's largest source of tourists since 2014, reaching nearly 150 million last year, according the Ministry of Culture and Tourism.

"The market potential remains huge," said Dai Bin, director of the China Tourism Academy. "Compared to the United States, where 48 percent of its citizens hold a passport, the figure in China is only around 10 percent. It's estimated that the number of Chinese outbound travelers will reach 230 million in 2030."

A report published by major Chinese travel agency Ctrip showed that 160 million Chinese people have travel plans during the upcoming four-day May Day holiday. Thailand, Japan, Vietnam, Taiwan and Indonesia are the top destinations outside the mainland.

Malaysia, which receives around 10 million Chinese tourists annually, began to issue e-visas for Chinese in 2017. "The number of visa stickers on passports of Chinese nationals dropped by 70 percent in the first year after the service was introduced, showing its high popularity," said Han.

Since last year, countries including Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Turkey, Thailand and Sri Lanka have started to accept visa application documents online and issue e-visas, either a bar code or QR code.

"When more countries that are mainstream travel destinations launch such services for Chinese, more will follow suit," Dai said.

Industry insiders said that the rapid development of internet technology in China and people's heavy use of online shopping, mobile payment and banking services have allowed e-visa services to take root quickly in the country.

"Such services, which save the time and trouble of sending passports and paper documents back and forth, suit the young groups, who usually don't plan for a trip far ahead of time," said Li Ailing, founder of lvyouquan.com, which provides tourism information to agencies.

BEIJING - Consumption upgrading in China's catering sector is accelerating as more catering services and management go online, creating fresh opportunities for domestic and overseas market players.

China's food production industry is becoming increasingly digitalized as technology involves the whole industrial chain, according to a white paper co-released by US health and hygiene giant Ecolab and Yicai Media Group with support from global auditing and consulting firm Deloitte.

China is now the world's second largest catering market after the United States, with total revenue topping 4.2 trillion yuan ($626.5 billion) last year.

The Chinese catering market is expected to see more fresh and niche brands and players expand in the chain store model, the report showed, adding that the application of digital technologies will be critical for ensuring food safety as the market becomes bigger and more sophisticated.

For the food retail sector, online-to-offline and new retail models will be the trend with more convenience stores and emerging supermarkets expected, the report predicted.

Increasingly tech-savvy Chinese consumers are looking for more high-quality, individualized, diversified and greener food products and services, according to Zhang Tianbing, managing partner for the consumer products and retail sector with Deloitte Asia Pacific.

"China's catering industry has shown increasing awareness of food safety, and displayed some unique business models thanks to its advanced development of digitalization," said Connell Zhang, executive vice-president and president of Greater China for Ecolab.

The rate of failed products by food safety regulators' random checks decreased from 5.3 percent in 2014 to 2.4 percent in 2018 thanks to coordinated efforts from all stakeholders, according to Wang Tiehan, food safety director with the State Administration for Market Regulation.

Industrial data showed that the country's food industry is in the midst of a transition toward health and safety. China's above-scale food industry firms shrank in size in 2018 compared with 2017, but the sector's profit growth far outpaced revenue growth.

The continuous evolution of China's catering sector will expand cooperation space for overseas firms and domestic partners, which may introduce more sophisticated management mechanisms and standards into the Chinese market, Zhang said.

Ecolab launched a joint platform Seven-Star Convention Alliance in 2011 with Yicai Media Group and catering industrial associations to promote effective food safety, management and quality control standards and practices. The alliance now has over 70 members made up of domestic and overseas players in food, retail, hotels and other related markets.