With Elton John's "Crocodile Rock" playing in the background and a tribute from Steve Irwin's family, a small seaside town in north Queensland bade farewell to a beloved community member Saturday, a saltwater crocodile.

Affectionately known as Bismarck, Fluffy or Gary, depending on who you speak to, Cardwell residents held a ceremony to say goodbye to the town's 4.5-meter croc.

More than 50 people attended the service, held at the Cardwell Jetty and organized by local Thea Ormonde.

Bismarck made international headlines earlier this month, when fisherman Ryan Moody posted a video about finding the crocodile - rumored to be as old as 80 - dead in a creek with what's believed to be a gunshot wound.

The family of late bushman Steve Irwin sent a representative and recorded a thank you to the small town that played at the Saturday service, praising their positive attitude toward the reptiles.

They said their late husband and father - a zookeeper and conservationist - would have been the proudest of Cardwell residents for accepting the croc as a part of their town.

"He was so, so passionate about protecting crocodiles and making sure we had these modern-day dinosaurs for the future generations," Irwin's daughter Bindi and son Rob said.As the new Marriage Act accepting same sex marriages in Finland became law on Wednesday, supporters of equality have celebrated it throughout Finland, but the national Evangelic Lutheran Church is facing increasing internal polarization. 

A new Helsinki high-rise hotel decided to feature rainbow colors on its front wall this week. Rainbow colored flags were hoisted by the Helsinki Music Center.

Former Finnish president Tarja Halonen sent congratulations to the couples tying the knot on Wednesday. 

"Congratulations, at last," she wrote. Halonen had been the chairman of the Finnish sexual equality pressure group Seta in the early 1980s. 

Embassies of some of the 23 countries who have already acknowledged same sex marriage published social media congratulations to Finland. They included among others Sweden and Britain. 

Finland is the last of the Nordic countries to allow same sex marriage. 

On the other hand, resignations from church membership have increased in recent days. Church is losing both conservative members thinking the church is too liberal and liberal members not accepting its negative stand on same sex marriage, according to national broadcaster Yle. 

Membership in the national church has declined in last twenty years from over 90 percent to above 70 percent. The marriage issue has triggered mass resignation waves during the past ten years. 

If no common ground is found in the church between conservatives and liberals, one alternative being debated is that the church would give up the legal right to enact marriages and thus avoid tackling the issue. 

Dozens of priests have announced their willingness to carry out ceremonies for same sex couples, but bishops have indicated the practice would lead to punishments. 

Finnish Parliament passed the Marriage Act in late 2014 on the basis of a civic initiative. The then government had not been willing to submit a bill as not all coalition parties accepted the idea. Only two weeks ago, a counter civic initiative to cancel the reform was defeated in the parliament. 

Homosexual acts were decriminalized in Finland in 1971. A civil partnership system was enacted in 2002.

Ormonde told AFP she couldn't believe the interest the crocodile's death attracted from across the world. 

"Bismarck delighted locals and tourists as he was always happy to show himself at a safe distance," she said.

"I believe he lived by the belief, 'you leave me alone and I'll leave you alone.'"

Not everyone had the same feeling about honoring Bismarck though.

Local Member of Parliament Nick Dametto said "there's no proof the animal has been shot, it's still very much under investigation."

A spokesperson from Cardwell Police confirmed they are currently investigating the death of the crocodile to see if it's been killed illegally.

In Queensland, the illegal taking of a crocodile has a maximum fine of Aus$28,383 ($20,000).

Classical music is attracting greater numbers of young Chinese as more parents introduce their children to music, China Daily reported Monday.

The National Centre for Performing Arts (NCPA) in Beijing has attracted performances by a long list of top international artists and symphony orchestras since it was opened at the end of 2007, according to the newspaper.

More than 9,600 performances have been staged at the venue in the past decade or so, and more than 900 were held there in 2018 alone.

At a time when most opera houses around the world are cutting their budgets, the NCPA has staged its own operatic productions, and holds an annual festival at which dozens of offerings from overseas are performed, the newspaper said.

In a new drive to reach younger audiences in China, the NCPA has also launched free online broadcasting. At the same time, symphony orchestras are also trying to break with convention by offering easy-to-listen programs. These initiatives combined with parental influence are thought to be fuelling the renewed interest in classical music.

Chen Guangxian, director of the China Symphony Development Foundation, a nonprofit organization, was quoted as saying that the number of symphony orchestras in China has risen in recent years.

There were about 30 professional orchestras four years ago, but by last year the figure had risen to 82, presenting opportunities not only for young Chinese musicians but also for those from around the world, the newspaper also reported.
