It is hoped that the American Chamber of Commerce in China (AmCham China) ought to evaluate China's market access and business environment for foreign investors in a more comprehensive, objective and fair manner, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) urged on Thursday.

The comment came after an annual white paper policy report by AmCham China said that "frustrated US businesses can no longer be counted on as a 'positive anchor' in US-China relations," according to a Reuters report on Wednesday.

"The US business community in China, so long an advocate of good bilateral relations, can no longer be relied upon to be a positive anchor. US companies continue to face an uncertain operating environment in China amid decreasing optimism about their investment outlook," it said.

Gao Feng, a spokesperson for MOFCOM, said at a press conference on Thursday that a survey of China's business climate in 2019 showed that 69 percent of American companies in the country were profitable in 2018, while nearly 80 percent of companies said that China's investment environment is improving or staying the same. The survey found that 62 percent of enterprises see China as either their premier global investment destination or as among the top three.

Figures released by MOFCOM showed that US investment in China surged by 71.3 percent in the first quarter of 2019 on a yearly basis.

Meanwhile, China's actual use of foreign direct investment stood at 242.28 billion yuan ($36.12 billion) in the first quarter of 2019, up 6.5 percent year-on-year.

The AmCham report also contained complaints about what it described as longstanding challenges with respect to a level playing field for US companies, including forced technology transfers, discriminatory economic policies and cybertheft, claims that cannot be substantiated have been repeatedly denied by Chinese officials.

"Regarding some of the issues and suggestions reflected in the white paper, we are also willing to work closely with relevant departments to maintain close communication with foreign-invested business associations, continuously improve China's business environment, and make China a hot place for foreign investors," Gao said.

Kong Qin, a 32-year-old white-collar worker in Beijing, recently noticed that Cheese, her cat, had been acting oddly since she gave birth to her son several weeks ago. The cat started using the bathroom all over the house, and she was never like that before.

Kong did not know what happened to the cat, and she asked for advice from a friend of hers who is also a cat owner. Her friend told her that Cheese may be acting out since she may be feeling neglected since the baby was born. She added that behaving this way was probably a ploy to win over her master's attention.

 Kong admitted that she did spend a lot of time with her son and did not pay as much attention to her cat as she used to.

She remembered that in a family in Baba Huilaile (Dad is Back), a Chinese reality show that she watched around one year ago, the dog often shoved the kid aside when the kid asked his dad for a hug.

When she was watching the show, she merely took the shoving as a joke and did not think too much of it, but she is now beginning to wonder if the dog was actually trying to steal the limelight. 

"I love my cat as much as I love my son, but I have no idea how to make amends to the cat," she said.

Kong is among the many pet owners who are also parents to a newborn and are exploring how to work for a better relationship between pets and kids. 

On the Internet, when "pets and kids" are searched as key words, a great number of articles that are devoted to the connection between the two pop up. On YouTube, the videos that concern the interaction between pets and kids gain huge popularity, many of which have been viewed millions of times.
