With a few strokes of her pen, the Finnish graphic designer Karoliina Korhonen presented her drawing on a white board, and made her cartoon figure Matti lifelike.

As the writer of a series of comic strips, Finnish Nightmares, Korhonen showed how to draw a comic character to a group of Chinese students who are studying Finnish language at Beijing Foreign Studies University (BFSU) and Tianjin Foreign Studies University at a reader event at the Finnish Ambassador's residence in Beijing on April 14.

The comic strips have become a hit in China since the publication of its Chinese version in the summer of 2018. Its protagonist, a "stereotypical Finn" called Matti - who is socially awkward but sincere - has struck a chord with the Chinese. Many internet users call themselves "jingfen," which means spiritually Finnish to echo the series. 

At the event, the Finland Ambassador to China Jarno Syrjälä thanked the students who choose to study Finnish and said that each Finn welcomes Chinese students to communicate and practice Finnish speaking with them. "Don't worry, we won't be scared and run away," he joked. 

Wearing Matti's image on their white T-shirts, some students presented some skits to the audience and the scenes in the skits were a reflection of what they see as their "Chinese nightmares."

Through the performances, the Chinese students wanted to show that the younger generations of both China and Finland are similar, which is one of the reasons why the series can capture the hearts of younger Chinese people. "We all like to make fun of ourselves and look for personal space, which doesn't mean we cannot communicate with others nicely," Qin Yanxin, a student from BFSU said.

"I love to hear the stories when the students acted out the situations," Korhonen told the Global Times. She sees this as her favorite part of the event and was surprised by the performance of these young Chinese "jingfen."

Typical Finns take their personal space "extremely seriously." In recent years, however, Korhonen has seen some changes. If a Finn chooses to live in a country with a huge population like China, they have to adapt to the new environment. "Your nature is introverted. But there is something that you can learn to live with. And then [you can] be an introverted-self when you get to be alone," she said. 

"Karoliina is vivacious," Qin said, recalling that before this event, the students wondered if the author was shy and not a communicative person, just like Matti. But all their worries disappeared gradually in the process. All of the students were amused by her humor after Korhonen drew a small body of Matti on the board, making his head several times bigger than his body. 

This is the first time for Korhonen to visit China. She arrived in China on April 10 and met with readers in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province and Shanghai before she visited Beijing. "I have one free day here. I have been thinking about visiting the Great Wall," she said. 

Apart from sightseeing in Beijing, Qin hopes that Korhonen can see some similarities between the Chinese younger generations and the young people in faraway Finland by experiencing the local culture. 

"Chinese people are really nice," said Korhonen, adding that she's a person who worries a lot about traveling to a new place. But in China, a country with so many things to look at, she almost forgets to worry and the Chinese tour has given her some inspiration for creation.

She is also getting prepared to publish her third book in Finland. "It is not necessarily about Finnish nightmares, but it's Matti explaining Finnish proverbs and sayings," she said.

