Amid an increase in EV sales and growing demand for energy-efficient sources, the growth of the global wireless EV charging market has been fueled.

Chinese wireless EV charging start-up Invispower Co, founded in 2015 with R&D team from Tsinghua University, has been accelerating the industrialization of its wireless charging technology for years.

Wang Zhe, CEO and founder of the Beijing-based company, told the Global Times in an exclusive interview  at the Shanghai Auto Show that Invispower's high-power wireless charging technology has been tested on the models of seven to eight auto manufacturers.

It plans to realize mass production next year, so it can be installed on certain models of certain automakers in the production period. 

"From R&D to mass production is challenging, but once that step is achieved, it will become much easier for the technology to be commercialized," said Wang.

Wang said the technology is totally proprietary and its technology route is different from the US.

Via a starter on an electric panel under the vehicle, energy can be wirelessly transmitted at fast speeds. "It is safer than charging piles especially during thunderstorms or on rainy days when high voltage poses higher risks for people," he said.

Besides, through an efficient coupling between the vehicle and charging materials, the efficiency can reach 92-95 percent.

Invispower invested 200 million yuan ($29.84 million) in January in its intelligent manufacturing base in Nantong, East China's Jiangsu Province. The new facility mainly manufactures basic materials for wireless charging.

The start-up's other technology application - in-car wireless charging for smartphones - will be used for more than 80 models of 30 automakers, entering their tier-1 supplier systems and accounting for 60 percent of the market, according to Wang.

The automakers include state-owned BAIC Motor and Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. "Nissan and BMW have also approached us for the technology."

Both international and domestic automakers are going all out for intelligent vehicles that connect with 5G networks and realize autonomous driving. In this sense, wireless charging will facilitate those technologies, according to Wang.

According to a recent report by Allied Market Research, the global wireless EV charging market was worth $21.8 million in 2017 and is projected to reach $1.4 billion by 2025, registering compound annual growth of 22.4 percent from 2018 to 2025.

"Compared with cats, dogs are generally more adaptable and thus will soon get used to life with a newborn," she said, adding that cats are more likely to pee anywhere in the house or run around scratching things to attract their master's attention.

She advised that if pets start to misbehave after a baby is born, pet owners should not punish them, which may stress the pet out and make it harder for them to get accustomed to their new life and to like the baby.

Pets rarely actively attack kids, but if kids hurt pets out of curiosity, like pulling their tails, pets may bite kids in order to run away.

"The biting act is unintentional and pet owners should not punish their pets unless they really hurt the kid," she said. "Otherwise, pets may be afraid to approach kids."

She also recommended that parents should be with the kids who are younger than two years old when there are pets around to protect pets and kids from being hurt by each other. As children get older, parents can help introduce their kids to the pets to help them become familiar and comfortable around each other.

 However, she said that pets will eventually get used to having kids around after some time, and pets owners do not need to worry too much.

Kong happily noticed that Cheese was more like her usual self over the past few days. 

"Maybe she has gone through the toughest phase and got used to my son," she said. "The next thing I plan to do is to take Cheese to my son's crib more often so that she will like him more."
