Home prices in 70 major Chinese cities went up on average in March, official data showed Tuesday. 

The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said in a statement that new house prices in four first-tier cities -- Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Guangzhou -- increased 0.2 percent month on month in March, down from the 0.3-percent increase in February. 

New home prices climbed 0.6 percent in 31 second-tier cities and rose 0.7 percent in 35 third-tier cities. 

As new house prices rose slightly, prices of resold houses showed signs of rebound. 

Prices for resold homes in four first-tier cities reported an average of 0.3-percent growth month on month, while that in 31 second-tier cities rose 1.2 percent, against the 0.2-percent drop from February. 

Ten cities out of 70 reported month-on-month drops of resold house prices in March, down from 14 registered in February. 

NBS senior statistician Liu Jianwei said local governments kept differentiated real estate policies in March, so as to maintain stable development of the property market with continuity of policies. 

On a year-on-year basis, new house prices in March in first-tier cities edged up 4.2 percent, while that for second-tier cities and third-tier cities rose 12.2 percent and 11.4 percent, respectively. 

Resold home prices also registered increases in most Chinese cities compared with a year ago, with second and third-tier cities seeing more robust growth than bigger cities like Beijing and Shanghai. 

Asian investment bank Nomura expected the slowdown in property markets of low-tier cities to continue after a brief respite. 

The ongoing recovery in the property sector, led by big cities, could be moderate, according to the Nomura research note. 

The total floor space of commercial housing sold in 336 cities went down 21 percent year-on-year, despite a 53-percent increase from February, the latest data from real estate research agency E-house CRIC showed. 

A long-term mechanism to maintain sound development of the real estate market was called for earlier at the Central Economic Work Conference, under the principle that "housing is for living in, not speculation," which analysts said set the tone for China's property market regulation this year.Zhao asks his parents for advice on what birthday gift to buy her and even discusses how to make up with Liu after a quarrel with them.

"It sometimes felt like I was dating his parents, not him," she said.

Liu also cannot stand that Zhao barely does housework. When the couple lived together, it's always Liu that washed his clothes, tidied up the apartment and cooked meals

Fed up with being his "babysitter," she finally left him. "Yes, he is sweet and kind, but what I need is a real man, not a big boy," Liu said. 

Zhao's life mirrors that of many young Chinese. Ma Zezhong, a psychologist and the executive director of the Beijing Association for Mental Health, said that compared with the post-60s and 70s generation, the younger generation tends to be less mentally and emotionally mature than their age would suggest. The primary factor stunting their development, she said, was a lack of individuality. 

According to Ma, the reason for this immaturity is complex, but family, education and social environment play a big role. As only children, many post-80s and 90s Chinese were spoiled or overly protected growing up, which is one of the factors that leads to their slow mental growth.

The way that parents treat their children is essential for their mental development. Liu Guo, a Chinese psychological consultant working in the US, agrees. She thinks it's also a cultural thing. 

"Take myself as an example. I'm about 30 years old, and my mom who still lives in China often tells me what I should do and treats me like a child. In the US culture and a healthy family, my mom's behavior would've been considered as boundary crossing because I'm an adult and can make my own decisions," Guo explained.

She knows it is the way her mother shows love for her, but she finds it hard to accept. 

However, Ma stresses that that everyone has a little child inside them and big babies should not be completely ignored. He said it is important for people to acknowledge and accept their immaturity so that they can make changes and push themselves to grow up.

As to how to combat the arrested psychological development of China's young, Ma suggests that individuals socialize more to to enrich their life experience so that their personality and individuality can develop and improve themselves so that they can become more mature and wise.
